(gentle piano music playing)
Our time at the Edgar Cayce Institute
provided a gold mine of information,
including useful knowledge on the mind body connection.
Dawn Hogue has been fascinated with Cayce's work
since her teenage years, and she has devoted herself
to the path through healing massage.
As a psychotherapist, Dawn easily incorporated her
understanding of the mind body connection to her body work.
Today, she is a teacher and administrator
at the Cayce Reilly School of Massotherapy.
Applying Edgar Cayce's readings and healing techniques,
Dawn brings a detailed look into some of the ways
we can heal ourselves and each other.
Dawn, what intrigued you initially about
coming here for your education?
There are a lot of places you can go
for an education as a healer, psychotherapist and so forth.
What was it that drew you to the Cayce Institute?
A few different things.
It was a combination of different factors.
I had some friends that had gone to school here,
so I knew from their experience a little bit of what it
was like, but it really started when I was about 19 or 20
and a friend of mine gave me
a book of Edgar Cayce on dreams.
That was my first introduction to Cayce
and learning about the aspect of interpreting
your dreams for personal growth.
I then got into some of his material
on attitudes and emotions,
and it just resonated with me.
You know how when you read something that
you just get, it was like that ah ha.
Funny enough, I was living on 89th street, so within
20 blocks, basically in my backyard was this gym.
You were right here already.
I can remember so distinctly, it was 1996
walking up the patio outside and just having that knowing,
that sense of yes, this is where I'm supposed to be.
It was definitely a series of serendipitous events
and coincidences that enabled me to come to school here
for massage therapy back then.
Here I am 16 years later.
Now you are really the back bone
of this school in a lot of senses.
Yeah, we have a team, certainly, of administrative staff
and faculty that are outstanding
that really make the school what it is.
I am really proud to be involved in the structure
that helps facilitate that learning
and that growth experience for other people.
It's very rewarding and I wouldn't be
anywhere else doing this.
I can imagine. The energy here is just sublime.
Here we are really just very close to the ocean,
the beaches, just across the way here.
That was by design back in the '20s
when Edgar got the idea that if he was going to start
helping others facilitate their healing in the
proper environment, that it had to be done near the ocean.
Can you talk a little bit about what his thoughts were
on that when this was established.
One thing that I know that stands out for me the most
that really connects in with some of the physical healing
and health principals in the readings
is that it was said that the sand here in Virginia Beach
had mineral properties that were very healing.
There was known to be gold, aspects of gold in the sand,
and one of the therapies that we teach are sand packs,
where you actually bury yourself in the sand
and there's a certain method and procedure
that you follow, but it's really powerful to see
what kind of detox can come just from lying in
this particular sand here.
Interesting, so even if you're a patient
and you were mobile, Scott and I have a few more days here,
(laughing)
just even taking walks in the sand along the water line
and lying in the sand in itself,
can you talk about, you were talking about detox,
what other things happen when you're lying
in this kind of sand in particular.
It is primarily the detox from,
I guess it depends on what
symptoms you're experiencing in your body,
but what I can tell you is that when people
get up from the sand, there's usually,
this sounds kind of ick, but there's usually
a ring of black that's left
where the person was lying.
Kind of like those
ionic foot baths.
Yes, exactly.
You can see where your body has sweated and sweated out
some of the superficial toxins that are there, but certainly
that's having a deeper impact on your body, also.
That's interesting, I didn't mean to
side track you there, but I find that fascinating.
Also, there's something about the negative ions,
and Cayce was looking at this
from a very whole point of view.
Let's go into your education and being educated
here versus another massage school, for example.
Also, your work in psychotherapy
and the mind body connection, because that's really
that's your thing, the mind body emotional connection
and also dreams.
Let's really get into more of your specialty
and what you learned through Cayce's teachings,
and then I'd like to know how you've carried that forward
and some case examples of your own
that you have seen applied that have just really been
borderline miraculous from the average person's
point of view.
I'm so happy to be able to share.
Like I said, I chose this school because I just knew.
I had that intuitive knowing.
The name of our program, School of Massotherapy,
is unique, that's a unique term for us here,
that really describes that healing art aspect
of massage therapy.
What I wanted and what I got from my studies here
was not just the techniques of massage
or the technical side of it,
but how to be present with another person,
how to be centered myself
so that I could be of better service to another person,
how to put my hands on someone with sensitivity
and with that awareness of a prayerful, mindful attitude,
to be a channel of healing.
That's really mentioned in the readings so frequently
and something that is a big aspect of our training,
is that we are channels of healing
for this person that we're working with.
That's so precious to me still to this day,
is that that healing comes through me, a universal healing.
These principles of universal healing,
being a channel of blessings, being centered
and grounded and present, just really resonated
with I guess my temperment.
I had always been pretty contemplative by nature
and a person who really reflected on herself.
I think that's part of what really interested me
about dreams, is that it gave me this other aspect
to reflect upon myself and learn about which direction
I should go in life and maybe even get some insights
in to what could be to come.
I have had a few of those myself, prophetic dreams
I guess you'd call them.
Very powerful, I still remember some of them
from years and years ago.
That is a big part of what drew me here.
As I got to work with clients more and more
I started to really notice patterns of tension and holding
in their bodies that sometimes corresponded
with what they would share with me was going on
in their lives.
I knew from my own self, too, where
I might hold in my neck and shoulders
what that had to do with, for example,
how I moved forward in life.
How I looked at life and those types of metaphorical themes.
Again, the more experience I got working with clients,
I just grew more and more interested in really exploring
that mind body connection.
How can we use our attitudes, our behaviors, our emotions
to heal, bring healing, or support healing to our bodies,
to use out thoughts constructively as opposed to
destructively, as is mentioned in reference in the readings.
There are 14,000 readings, so it's not as though
there's a lack of guidance here.
Are there very specific correlations in those readings
that you studied having to do with, for example,
your neck and shoulders, about moving forward,
about heart conditions, what has generally impacted
that part of the body through the mind and the emotions.
Can you give us a bit of a portrait of the human body
and common or chronic ailments and the correlative emotions
and mindsets so we can have a little takeaway here.
Yeah, absolutely.
I can certainly give you some insight into that
and at the same time,
I really try not to be so deterministic.
Yes, one size fits all.
Every person is so unique and individual, that's right.
They're just generals to keep in mind,
but not to ascribe as a definite to people.
Cayce mentioned quite a bit, not so much in the readings
about attitudes and emotions having to do with
certain body postures or whatnot,
but he did mention a lot about the mental drosses,
if you will, or the things that get bogged down in our minds
and emotions that can lead to the physical drosses
and build up in the system.
He talked more generally in that way,
but some of my other studies that I've done
with Cayce and since have shown me that
often times the upper body, the neck and shoulders,
do reflect how we move forward in life.
If someone has a posture where their head is a bit forward
from the rest of their body, their leading with
a little bit of intensity, and the head and the mind moreso
than kind of being aligned in their body.
That would be indicating they're more
in their heads a lot.
What about someone who has kind of a slumped?
That kind of rounded shoulders and slumped
can sometimes correlate with fear, certainly someone that
has maybe developed some insecurities in their life
and they're just afraid of opening their heart
and living from a place of openness and trust.
We're in an area where there's a lot of military
and of course we appreciate all they do for our country,
but you'll notice a typical posture in a lot of military
that the chest is out.
Sometimes that can reveal a false bravado,
leading from that place of authority, again as opposed to
a balance within the body of
that heart within a confidence that one can have.
Legs and lower body generally represent how
we move through life,
and sometimes relate to can we step forward
into that next step or do we stay stuck where we are.
Those types of themes.
Hips, for example, so many people
have problems with hips it seems.
Hips and low back often correspond to that security.
The hips and low back are associated
with those lower chakras of security
and when we first come into the world,
and that innate sense of I am okay.
Sometimes when there's stiffness or stuckness
or tension in the hips and low back,
it could relate to some issues of questioning that
or not feeling secure in how we're connected in the earth
and to our life experiences.
When you're talking about the lower part
of the body, does that continue on to the feet?
Do the feet have specific information they convey?
It definitely goes from the hips to the knees to the feet.
Injuries related to the knees can definitely be associated
with again, how am I moving forward in life.
Feet are more about how am I grounded in life,
am I securely grounded and planted here where I am,
or are there compromises that I'm making in terms of
how connected I can be to the earth
and to each step that I'm taking.
I assume if you extend that to people
who stumble a lot, right?
If someone came in and hurt themselves
and tweaked their back out and their knee
and twisted their ankle because they stumbled
because of whatever, what would be the first thing
you'd start asking or looking at, for example?
I might just say, so tell me about what's going on
in your life and is this a pattern?
That would be the first thing I would ask,
is this a pattern that you notice in yourself?
Are you always injuring your knee?
Is it the same knee?
Then we'd look at, okay, is it the right or left side
and what some of those associations might have to do with.
I really, again, just try to be open ended
when I'm talking to clients and really get information
from them and ask questions
that kind of reveal their own ah ha's
about connections that it could have
to maybe some beliefs that they're holding
or just some issues that are not supporting them.
So often people just tend to look at these things
as random, bu they're not just random.
If you don't mind, we'll just continue a little bit further.
Let's talk about the heart.
If we look at the heart and then maybe
the digestive system or elimination system,
what are those things indicating as a rule?
The heart is definitely how we embrace life.
Do we have a trusting heart and spirit
that we feel that we can be open and embrace,
or is there a way at which we even subtlety sometimes
retract and pull back from really expressing our love,
expressing our fears, expressing our emotions.
The heart is really connected with that emotional security,
as well as the gut, the digestive system.
Cayce readings really, a lot goes back
to the digestive system, a lot goes back to the gut
and the assimilation of foods, of attitudes, of events.
At the very basic foundation,
does our digestive system assimilate properly,
meaning can it digest and get rid of what it doesn't need?
Or does it hold onto things for fear
or whatever the more esoteric reasons might be.
One of the observations I've had,
and again, these are broad strokes,
is that the men I've observed in life versus the women,
the women seem to hold on a lot more
and have more issues with their digestive
and elimination tracks than do the men
who seem to operate much more quickly,
but maybe have more heart issues.
Just sort of an aside to that, physically what I notice,
and a lot of massage therapist body workers
will say the same thing, men generally tend to have issues
of low back, low back tension, whereas women
tend to have issues of upper back and shoulder tension.
The women are shouldering the burdens of family
and taking care of their children and loved ones,
whereas men carry the burdens of being that provider.
It's just interesting to just kind of see that
as a common tension pattern.
Looking at it this way, how do you view
allopathic medicine then, where people go in with a symptom
and the symptom is given some remedy.
Anything to say about--
Don't need to really say much about it, I guess.
It's not very integrated.
Well, some can be.
I certainly give credit to a lot of allopathic practitioners
that are open to complimentary and alternative therapies.
Generally speaking, I think allopathic
tends to treat symptoms rather than cause.
Often the sysmtoms can be easier to treat,
however, it's not really getting at the root cause--
No, and it'll be back.
of maybe what's creating those symptoms.
Is that a system that perpetuates
a dependency on a physician, or a medication,
or some other kind of intervention,
as opposed to a system like alternative or complimentary
therapies that really try to address causes that will help
empower the individual to not be dependent on, but to be
able to prevent certain conditions from even arising.
I definitely see a bit of a dichotomy there.
The Cayce readings, unfortunately I can't quote
the reading specifically, but there is a reading that says
if the individual has the consciousness
that a pill well help them, then let them take that pill.
If they have the consciousness that a caster oil pack
will help them, caster oil pack.
We really wanna try to meet each person where they are,
so to speak, and work within their belief system,
because if you really, I have found,
that if you don't respect where a person is
and at least go in from there with your work,
then you're really missing an important step
in their greater healing and their greater support.
Absolutely, there's no point in trying to
take someone where they're not ready to go yet.
Exactly.
Going back to the Cayce readings then,
because this is a holistic almost multidimensional approach
to healing, what was the hierarchy for him
in terms of the spirit and your spiritual understanding
and connection with life, versus the mind,
versus the emotions, and then down into the body.
What was the hierarchy there?
Very clearly and simply stated,
spirit is life, mind is the builder,
and physical is the result.
You wanna have the integration of those three, of course.
What I love, love, love about the Cayce readings
is that in the physical body, there's a direct connection
between the endocrine system, which is the glandular system
of our body, and the emotional system,
or our emotions.
For me, that's where I really resonate in, again, that ah ha
and understanding.
It makes a lot of sense to me that
spirit brings in through the endocrine system
through the chakras, those forces
that then move through our body to influence
our mind, our thoughts,
that then therefore influence our physical health
or lack thereof.
He also, although it was out of
his comfort range initially,
extends that back to past lives
and what's brought forward from another life
by way of a condition, a fear, or whatnot
and that spiritual impact that starts influencing
the mind and emotions in this lifetime, right?
Can you speak a little bit about that?
From what I know of past lives and soul development,
Soul development, yeah. I like that.
I resonate with that term more than past lives,
but that soul development is that the soul will incarnate
as many times as it needs to perfect itself,
to learn those lessons.
Sometimes those physical symptoms can follow one
through lifetimes.
I've worked with someone recently who was having a lot
of problems in her shoulder, in between her shoulder blades.
She would say to me so often, I really think
it's from past life.
I really feel like I must have stabbed someone in the back
in a past life and now I am experiencing
this pain in my back.
That came totally from her, that was not prompted by me,
but we share this belief system and openness to exploring
how past lives can influence whats going on for us now.
Obviously for her, that was a very direct connection
to physical symptoms that she was having.
Once a person has determined this,
or they have a suspicion or an insight,
what actually happens then to the body?
Here she is carrying this pain.
A lot of our work then is physically working with that
to ease her pain and to see what else could be contributing
to that in this life.
She's feeling that pain in her shoulders,
but what is she holding onto in her arms
and in her shoulders.
Are there beliefs, are there attitudes
that she could let go of and release
to help release that pain.
I have not yet, but I would love to train
in hypnotherapy to be able to use that
therapeutic direction to maybe help someone
on an unconsciousness level release and forgive
maybe past transgressions that are showing up
in their physical body.
It's a worthwhile endeavor, very.
That's interesting because I had something on my back,
the back of one shoulder for years and
under hypnosis I took a look at it
and I saw something from another time
that had to do with a spider bite that had taken place
that was lethal in that area.
I don't even know how long ago.
This kind of pad of fat, lypoma, had developed
over that area, kind of protecting something
that wasn't there.
I thought that was interesting at the time to see that.
(laughing)
You hear these kinds of things all the time.
What about the dreaming part of it,
because for you, that's another part.
Absolutely, dreaming and meditation really have been,
dream interpretation and meditation,
two really significant tools from the Cayce readings
that I use on a daily basis.
I just had a dream the other night in which
something was missing from my suitcase.
I thought, okay, let me go and see what symbolism
does suitcase mean?
It was really fun to kind of reflect on what significance
that could have for me at this time.
When you say what significance suitcase has,
does that mean for you personally,
or are you looking more as a larger symbol
that's been established to have meaning?
Both, both.
There are definitely archetypal symbols
that have a universal meaning,
and at the same time, what then does that mean for me?
How does that apply right now?
Suitcase has to do with journey, traveling,
what you're carrying with you.
For me, I reflected on, okay,
am I leaving something?
Am I forgetting something in my journey here?
Am I worried about not having something in my journey
that maybe I really don't need?
It's both, really, a combination of the two.
We teach a class in our massage program,
dreams and meditation.
We teach that as a tool for massage therapists
to be able to have a way to reflect on what's happening
in their lives and supporting their own personal growth,
again in service of the people that they will work with.
It's really fascinating, especially when students
come through our program.
It can be very transformative for them on a personal level
as they're learning to really sensitively work
in such an intimate environment with another person,
in the energy field of another.
Whether or not your client believes that or not,
we hold a belief, generally speaking,
that we are touching their energy,
touching their lives, not just their arm or their leg.
That can bring up a lot of stuff for a person.
Because of the type of training you do,
and your natural proclivities anyway,
of being open to meditation, open to soul development
and so forth, are a number of the people here
or that come through this program
open intuitively so they're able to really see
what else is going on and maybe go inside
within the mind of the other?
A lot of the them are, and for a lot of them
this is new, this is s new exploration,
a new territory.
I have seen for some that can be a little intimidating,
a little bit scary if they're still in their own
sort of development and understanding of themselves.
It can sometimes feel a little overwhelming
when they're picking up sensations
or emotions that they're not sure
are these mine, are they coming from someone else?
Just kind of in that whole nebulous, mysterious,
lovely mysteriously territory of working with other people.
It's definitely both, but I know that the fact that we can
even have discussions like what we're having today,
talk about these concepts, is something that
is really attractive and appealing
to the students that come here.
They're looking for that.
Something more than just --
Massage school.
The sciences.
Yeah, and the technique and the business.
Is there anyone that is come along,
I'm not saying that is Edgar Cayce, but who is very open.
I mean, do you have some people here who are very open
and really good readers of what's going on in that being?
Yeah, absolutely.
Students, teachers, and staff.
There's a lot of people in our community that are very open.
The ones that I have found that, for me, have resonated
and been the most skillful in sharing their
intuitions and observations usually do so in a very gentle
in a gentle way.
They're very mindful not to, here's whats going on with you,
to be aggressive in sharing what they're noticing,
but they're very sensitive in how they
approach another person with,
"I'm kind of sensing something here.
"Can I share with you?"
Then when they share it's,
"How does that sit with you?
"Does that make sense?"
Again, it's kind of an exchange of here's what I'm seeing
and is that true?
Really being mindful to just not put our own stuff
on someone else.
Also, if you're seeing things often, there's
a big responsibility with that as to what should be shared.
In the case of Cayce, when he was viewing people,
he could see what was their dynamic was,
but it was always followed up by the information
that was going to balance that back out.
Was he able to work with virtually any kind of condition
with people?
As far as I know, yes.
I can't think of any--
and again, there are scholars of these readings well beyond
my years of experience, but I don't recall any that
where there was a terrible blockage
of that flow of information.
If so, when he was in that trance state,
he was able to say, I can't see that.
Because it's being blocked from him.
Yes, but normally, from what I understand,
if people were given remedies
and they actually followed the protocols,
which is the big X factor, a lot of people won't do it.
If they followed it, they were generally cured.
Generally speaking, yeah, or certainly
their conditions were improved greatly.
A lot of the readings, the health readings in particular,
there are follow-ups and someone might say
okay, well we did this, this, and this,
and there's still this going on.
So, they would go back to Cayce and he would say,
"Uh huh."
Sometimes it was a subtle shift in they need an adjustment
in the thoracic vertebrae number 10 instead of number 12,
or the castor oil pack needs to happen
at 9 pm instead of 9 am.
There were subtle adjustments that
when he was in that trance state,
he could see and recommend.
that's just so unbelievably fascinating to me.
I know a big part of
He was so specific.
why I'm still here, yeah.
That his information could be so specific,
especially when it came to physical symptoms
and the physical treatments of those ailments.
There are a couple books
in the library downstairs that have documented that,
but also, you must
the healing facility here must still employ some of his--
Can you talk about some?
Oh, absolutely.
I mean like you talk about
the castor oil packs, for example.
Anyone who's read Cayce knows about those.
Talk about that for a moment.
Does that still have value?
Do these remedies still have value
even though, granted, all kinds of super foods
and super vibrational devices and everything
have entered the market,
let's talk about what still has lasting value.
There was a particular routine for the administration
of a massage that was taught,
and that's the routine that we teach here,
which is very unique.
Only at our school can one learn that.
The techniques themselves are Swedish based,
traditional, just like you'd probably get in any other
massage that you might get from other practitioners,
but it was that routine that was so unique.
Within that routine, there are
particular patterns of spinal massage
to coordinate and balance the nervous system,
is why we do those different patterns
of massage.
Is that like the
sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system,
to get them back in harmony?
Exactly, to balance the --
For example, going from the neck to the low back,
circular spinal massage to balance the bundles
of nerve ganglia that lie along the spine,
which then have their effect as those nerves branch out
into the body to help coordinate all of our systems
to function more efficiently and properly.
The massage routine with those spinal patterns,
but we do still teach the remedies and
they're pretty,
well some people say they're old fashioned.
They're home remedies,
but I think it really speaks to the fact that
as advanced as one might get, sometimes it's still
those very simple
basic foundations--
That's what
I wanna know.
That are really effective.
What are a couple that still really work?
The castor oil packs, absolutely,
Talk about that.
I am a castor oil proponent,
Will be forever.
Let's talk about it and how it's used
and what it does.
Castor oil has a lot of different uses.
The oil itself, and as you know, it's paradoxical
because the bean is poisonous,
but the oil is what is so healing.
The Palm of Christ, Palma Christi oil is what it's known as.
You can use it topically, superficially on skin wounds,
rashes, cuts, acne it's very beneficial for,
but it's most known as a castor oil pack.
You soak a piece of wool flannel
with the castor oil.
You apply it to the liver, generally speaking,
so that that oil then soaks into the liver to purify.
The liver is the organ that really holds all of our toxins,
flushes them, filters them,
and so that healing oil then soaks into the liver
that then can cleanse those toxins.
It's very effective for constipation,
all kinds of digestive issues,
conditions such as psoriasis and eczema,
which are known to come from the intestinal system
and manifest externally on the body
because of maybe different buildups in the intestines
or again, some toxins that aren't being filtered
through the liver, so the packs are incredibly healing.
I've seen people with skin conditions for years
have those conditions miraculously healed, if you will.
Really? Even acne?
Even Acne.
Is that true for pubescent acne or mostly for
acne having to do more with toxicity in later in our years?
Mostly toxicity and just the chemical
and foods that we eat that might activate
different blockages in our pores.
I don't know of anyone specifically with adolescent acne,
but if I had to go back and do it over again,
I would certainly use it, I would.
It kind of goes contra to what you'd think,
because people think,
"Ugh, I don't wanna put that thick oil on my face."
But, it's not a thickness that blocks,
it's a thickness that absorbs and penetrates
to cleanse and heal.
Castor oil is known to have antiseptic benefits,
and so that is that healing property
that's within it as well.
So, eczema and psoriasis?
Mmhmm.
That's through the liver?
That's right, that's through the packs.
I have worked with a lot of friends and clients
doing the castor oil packs, a lot for constipation
and digestive issues
and sometimes people see results even after one pack.
Generally, they're done in a series,
so you do three days on, four days off,
for a series of three weeks.
Does that mean for an hour
or to sleep with it or what?
You can leave it on for longer than an hour,
but generally it's about an hour to two.
Is it heated?
Yup, you put a hot pad, a heating pad over top
to help it soak in, but for women,
for example, if you're having your mentrual flow,
then you can do the pack without the heat.
It can be done either way.
One thing that I love about the packs
and the Cacye readings is that,
the person who's giving the pack
as well as the person receiving,
really needs to be in a meditative state.
Using again, back to the thoughts, using our thoughts
to affirm health, to affirm the healing
that's happening from this pack.
The Cayce readings would caution against turning on your TV
while the pack is on and watching the Nightly News,
because that's gonna stress your system.
You'd wanna listen to relaxing music,
lie in a comfortable bed, or just be silent for that time.
It's not just the therapy, but those attitudes
that you put with it both as the receiver and as the giver.
I can recall many times getting teary-eyed
and tearing up when I'd be giving a castor oil pack
because I was sort of overcome with that emotion
of giving and caring to another person.
Maybe also their gratitude and appreciation
that it was making a nice little circle of love there.
That's right.
You were talking about the lower back earlier,
is the castor oil pack something you'd use
on the lower back as well?
You could, you could use it on the knee.
You can use it on really any body part.
How would that interface with the lower back
if you have security issues in life.
Hopefully, ideally, it would help resolve,
it would help heal those issues.
It would bring a balance back to the body.
Sometimes it might not even be at one's
conscious level of awareness, but
because of relief they might feel physically,
then all of a sudden they have a shift
in how they are experiencing the world,
how they behave in the world.
They're more at easy and not really knowing
why they feel that shift.
So, that could assist in that?
Yeah, absolutely.
Bringing that balance back
through castor oil pack on the lower back.
Aside from the castor oil packs,
what are some of the other really well known
Cayce remedies?
Glyco thymoline is a product that, again,
is an antiseptic, antibacterial product that's used
quite a bit for all kinds of intestinal,
digestive conditions, as well as mouth and oral conditions.
So, to cleanse the mouth, to be a good mouth wash.
It's also an alkalinizing product.
The Cayce readings talk a lot about health and illness
from the standpoint of this acid alkaline balance
in our bodies.
Glyco thymoline helps to restore
a more alkaline state in the body.
Is it something you take?
Mmhmm, it's like a red mouth wash.
Like a red mouth wash?
You can gargle with it.
Sometimes when I might feel a cold coming on,
I will drink it.
Not too much because it tastes a little medicinal,
a little funky, but you can mix it with water
to water it down a little bit.
I will drink that just to help balance out
like i said, when I feel a cold coming on.
You can use glyco thymoline in a pack across the sinuses
that helps to relieve sinus pressure and congestion.
Those are probably the two--
I've never heard of glyco thymoline.
Oh, you'll find it in our book store.
It's down in the book store,
we'll have to take some home and have that on hand.
Youll find it in a red box probably,
and again, a red mouth wash type product.
Glyco thymoline.
Baking soda was a pretty common remedy and Cacye readings
would often mix it with castor oil for warts and moles,
bee stings, bug bites, that kind of thing
you could use it for.
He also recommended some of the readings
that we teach our different types of packs and poultices.
There is a mustard pack for congestion in the chest,
there was apple cider vinegar, that's another huge product
recommended in a lot of the readings.
For alkalinity again?
For alkalinity and for that detox
and antiseptic properties.
Apple cider vinegar can be used for relief of sunburn,
it can be mixed with Epsom salts to help reduce inflamation
of injuries, sprains, and strains.
You can do a pack of apple cider vinegar and Epsom salts
and that can have some pretty unbelieveable--
Some people drink it in the morning.
Some people do.
Like a tablespoon
in warm water, and I don't know if he was a proponent
of that to alkalize the system in the morning.
Even lemon and water was recommend as an
early morning drink when you wake up to help, again,
cleanse the drosses in the system
and bring some alkalinity there.
Orange juice mixed with lemon juice
is also another good alkalizing product.
Sometimes people think, well orange juice and citrus
is acid, acidity, but when you drink it
and it's inside your body, it has that alkalizing effect.
It kind of has its opposite effect inside the body
than what you might think externally.
Let's see, so we have the castor oil,
and we have the glyco thymoline,
and we have the apple cider vinegar,
and then the citruses in the morning.
Yup, baking soda.
Baking soda, which I mean even,
I think it's Dr. Simoncini, in Italy,
of course he got in big trouble for it,
was injecting a type of essentially baking soda
into breast tumors and boom gone.
Of course, I think he's had some problems
with the medical industry even though he's a medical doctor
for doing this because it's doing an end run around
the other common cancer therapies, chemo.
I appreciate the skepticism that sometimes comes
when some of these alternative home remedies are offered,
but I usually say to a person, just try it.
It's not gonna hurt anything.
Usually when you assure someone it's not
gonna make your condition any worse,
just give it a try, come see me, I'll help you,
I'll apply it for you, sometimes the unknown of how to do it
really can turn people off from trying something different.
Once they try, most people have been converts.
I can think of my sister and her fianc
had a stye in his eye, and I told her about the potato
poultice that was recommended
for styes in the Cayce readings.
She thought I was off my rocker.
You want me to shred an old Irish potato
and put this on his eye?
She did it, and sure enough, within a couple of days,
the stye was gone.
Yes, and we have to remember,
Cayce was not making this stuff up.
He was an open clear channel for cosmic information.
He was allowing what was true for our species at the time
and now to be seen.
These things, these home remedies, these products,
they have properties that
effect different conditions.
Not to take it from surface assumptions you have
about what baking soda is.
Or a potato.
Or a potato, or a mouthwash.
More than just a french fry.
What is in that that has its effect on different
aspects of your system's functioning.
Yes, and I think it's important that we remember
that this information was coming from other places.
What about sunshine?
What about some of the natural elements?
How was he on the sun?
Definitely walking, just taking a light moderate walk
to get the fresh air and the sunshine
is recommended specifically in many Cayce readings.
There's a quote, I can't recall it specifically right now,
but after breakfast, work a while,
after lunch, rest a while, after dinner, walk a mile.
It's all about that balance between your work, your rest,
your play, your acid alkaline foods that you're eating,
and certainly sunshine and the vitamins that we absorb
through our skin and body just by getting that natural light
can have a very significant impact on someone's health.
{Regina] Were there any-- Although I know
we're each very unique in terms of our own body chemistry,
our alkaline acid balances, and so forth.
Were there any over arching dietary guidelines
that he passed on?
The biggest one is that acid alkaline balance.
80% alkaline to 20% acid.
He would suggest to avoid foods or beverages
that produce an acidic condition in the body
such as carbonated beverages, alcoholic beverages,
sweets, sugars, those types of things that, again,
create that acid condition.
He recommended a lot of vegetables, of course,
naturally to produce that alkaline state.
Very minimal carbohydrates, but not just those guidelines,
but how you combine the foods.
He would suggest that you combine proteins and vegetables,
or starches and vegetables, but not to combine
proteins and starches because that combonation
produces a challenge in your digestive system.
Those need different enzymes to be digested.
Combining them in one meal, you're sort of cancelling out
those enzymes and preventing them from digesting properly.
Whereas, if you have a vegetable and a starch, those enzymes
aren't competing against each other,
so you can digest that more easily.
He also suggested certain things like
not mixing citrus fruits with starches or other,
have those separately.
Those are some of the big ones, and water, of course.
What about as the body ages and we supposedly
have less enzymes active in the digestive process?
Would you say from looking at this,
that if you're keeping your acid alkaline balance
right to begin with, you're not experiencing that same
kind of depletion?
That would be my assumption, absolutely.
I can't recall that the Cayce readings or any reference
that I'm familiar with speaks specifically to--
A reduction in those enzymes?
Yes, speaks specifically to that, but more how to correct
an imbalance that could be there
because of longstanding dietary patterns.
Anything else you can think of
that are really the backbones of Cayce readings,
that can apply to any of us, we can hear from this right now
and say, oh yeah, I need to consider that.
The attitudes and emotions, certainly, the diet,
the health, balance.
Meditation.
Meditation, and finding your ideal and living in alignment
with your higher spiritual ideal is certainly
what I believe is one of the other biggest tenets
of the Cayce readings, is what is our purpose?
What is our lifes purpose?
There are different guided meditations and processies
a person can go through to align with what they think
their ideal is at any given time.
It can change over the course of a life time,
but they're generally larger themes like love,
cooperation, service, and so to really
stay in that mindful meditative state where you are
aware and connected with what your larger soul's purpose is
and really live from that
and that when you live from thy ideal, as Cayce would say,
then you will be doing the best that you can
in your own life and for the lives of others.
That when we're aligned with that spiritual ideal,
then we're aligned with our maker.
The Cayce readings refer to God and our maker
and really being aligned with that higher source,
which comes through us through our ideal
and our attunement to that.
As you have mentioned, and I just popped in
a second ago, he really believed that
one had to take meditative time.
If you're going to know thyself,
know your ideal, to know anything.
To know what's going on in your body,
and to balance it.
That's right, I love this quote from the Cayce readings,
"Prayer is talking to God
"and meditation is listening to God."
We pray to be a channel of blessings,
to be guided and centered, that thy will be done
in me and through me.
Then we have our meditation time to really listen
and be still and hear that guidance
so that we know how to go forward in our lives.
I'm looking forward to experiencing
the meditation room here a little bit later.
It's lovely.
I often lead the staff meditation.
We all take turns on different weeks.
Those weeks for me are some of the most precious
and I look forward to that every time I go.
It's a very beautiful space
and you can just feel the reverence that's there.
Yes, and throughout this whole building
and the whole complex.
Any final thoughts you'd like to share about your journey
of having taken your passion and your ideals and skills
through the lens of Cayce's work?
Oh gosh, what a big question, how to sum up
in a short couple of statements.
For me, it really is that affirmation of cooperation,
that thy will be done in me and through me.
That I ever be a channel of blessings to those
that I contact in every way and that my will
be in accord with that though would have me do.
It really is.
I feel so fortunate and blessed to be
in an environment where I can have that
as my guiding principle day in, day out
and that that be known and shared in our community,
It's not just me holding that in my little office or space,
but that is something that everyone here
in some way or another is attuned to.
I think that there are people watching right now,
some of our viewers who might even be contemplating
a new career or a change of life career,
or are young and their first career
that are inspired by this.
Does the institute take on new students with regularity?
Oh, absolutely, yeah.
Our massage program, we're ongoing all throughout the year.
We have programs that start three times a year.
How long do they last?
It's an eight month program,
so it's really relatively short.
Massage as a career is a great trade and skill to have.
It's a great profession where one can, practically speaking,
work a relatively part time schedule, so still have time
for that work, personal life balance.
It's very rewarding in that you know you're making
a positive difference to other people,
and it's a great stepping stone into any other kind of,
certainly healthcare profession, or any other kind
of therapeutic work that you wanna do with people.
When you learn how to touch someone,
physically touch them, but touch them in a bigger sense,
that's a skill that benefits you
and enhances everything you do in your life.
As you're saying, you're bringing that energy
through you, you're a conduit.
You're receiving and giving at the same time.
That's right, that's right.
Whether it's through a massage or just a comforting touch
on the back, when you learn to be comfortable
with making contact with people
and knowing that your intention is coming
from a greater place,
there's really nothing more rewarding than that.
Because it's such a beloved experience
for people, one thing I've noticed is here we are in
I think it's fair to say a down turn economy,
about four years into it now,
and the people I know who have the greatest number of trades
for other services are always the masseurs and masseuses.
That's right.
Economies are gonna go up and down,
but people's needs, their ailments
physically and emotionally are always gonna be there,
sometimes even more so
in stressful economic and world conditions.
I'm not saying that as a plug
to become a massage therapist,
I'm just saying, I have a lot of friends who do massage
and I can certainly see that they have no shortage.
Need a haircut? Let's do a trade.
Whatever it is, let's do a trade.
That's right, ours is the one profession
that you don't have to hard sell anybody.
No, you sure don't.
(laughing)
Well, I really appreciate your taking the time
to talk to us.
We have a conference starting here today
and so it's a lot of people bustling around.
Busy time for all of you.
Thank you so much for your time.
You make it sound really like quite an enticing thing to do.
Well, great, thank you. It was my pleasure.
If you should find yourself in Virginia Beach, Virginia,
you can have a healing massage at the Edgar Cayce Institute
after a day in the Cayce library.
If you wish to serve others in a healing capacity,
you can also check into their
eight month massotherapy program.
We could all use a pair of healing hands these days,
and it may be a worthy endeavor
for anyone who is naturally nurturing.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.